# 5 Common Startup Growth F-ups

If you haven't seen [5 Common Startup Growth F-ups](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aNw1JkmT3gM) by Aliisa Hodges, Mixpanel, go and watch it.

## 1. Focusing on quantity instead of quality

Focusing on user acquisition, signups, MAUs instead of measuring user retention is common mistake made by startups. In reality, returning loyal users are much more important for the business. So is building relationships with them by offering right services or providing the right type of solution. That can only be achieved if the business understands the audience and knows common characteristics it's users share.

It is the key to build the business around customer happiness as that will drive retention reducing churn rates and effectively providing long term value for the company.

> Make your industry benchmark a gold standard, understand it and aim for it.

## 2. Slacking on the sign-up funnel

It is crucial to work cross-functionaly across the organization without allowing any particular group to control sign-up functionality. You need to measure and test to figure out what works best and what doesn't.

It is important to keep size of a signup form to the minimum to user registration as easy as possible.
Make sure sign-up process is intuitive, easy and most importantly super fast and very user friendly.

If, however you would want to get more information from the user it might be good idea to introduce 2 step registration or perhaps ask users to provide more details after they start using the app.

It is always great idea to embed social signup functionality even if it means 3rd party branding being present on company website. Leveraging social media sign up helps a lot. Social platforms APIs often provide valuable information that can be used at later stage in targeted marketing campaigns.

## 3. You don't ask for referrals

Asking existing users for referrals is great way to grow user base. It can be done by asking users to put your company badges on their sites, social media profiles or perhaps to send notifications to their friends.

Badges are awesome not only for direct referral but also improve SEO (search engine optimisation) as they usually link back to your site.

It is always good idea to reward referring users with some sort of incentives. It could be reputation, credits or karma points which potentially could unlock additional functionality or enable for free some premium features.

It is proven that visitors who come to the site from referral have higher conversion rate that organic visitors. Another interesting fact is that asking user to spam everyone on their contact list has usually very low conversion rate. Instead it is better to ask for fewer referrals and to provide better incentives but only for the successful ones.

## 4. You don't A/B test

It is one of the most important testing techniques allowing to find the best conversion strategy. A/B testing landing pages with call to action is a must. High conversion rate (visits to registrations ratio) is driving factor in a company success.

Similarly, A/B testing newsletter email elements (title, content, images, links, etc.) is equally important. CTR (click through rate) generated by emails will determine how many users will reach your website to eventually register or purchase additional products or services. That is why finding the best strategy is so crucial and it can only be revealed by running lots of tests on different groups of users.


## 5. You don't have one metric that matters

As important as it is to have different metrics such us MAUs, Sessions, Page Views, Uniques, it essential to understand that those metrics don't really provide real value. They will constantly grow as your user base expands. Those vanity metrics are nothing more but  "bullshit metrics" that for the most part will make you feel great but they are not actionable. They don't tell you how to improve conversion rates or quality of the service.

Instead, you should have one metric that you bank your business on. For example. it may be frequency of users return to the page. Once you find yours, you need to become obsessed with it and build everything else around it. Hint on finding the key metric is searching for the one that has the highest impact on your business.
